# PixelFont
This project is a set of scripts which generates a custom font for a Minecraft resource pack.

The custom font provides a range of unicode characters (U+FFF to U+1FFE), each of which is a single color from a 12 bit color palette that is generated by one of the scripts. Each unicode character is represented by its component RGB channels as 0xBGR, offset by 0xFFF to avoid the special formatting characters hardcoded in Minecraft's resource pack engine. Along with the color unicode characters, there is a negative space character represented as a basic space character (" ", or 0x20).

## Purpose
This font makes it feasible to stream video content to many players on a minecraft server network. Whilst still more ineffecient than streaming the raw color data, it still appears to be the best practical solution. It is not ideal as even though it is 12 bit color, each pixel is a combination of a UTF-16 unicode character and a UTF-8 negative space unicode character. The negative space character is required to correctly format the pixels to not have any padding between them.

This approach is still vastly more efficient than the typical method of displaying a colored pixel in a text display.

The typical approach would be to use a unicode full block character (█, U+2588) and color it via a tag in the entity's json object.

```
/summon minecraft:text_display ~ ~2 ~ {text: [{color: "#e01b24", text: "█"}, {color: "#33ee55", text: "█"}, {color: "#3584e4", text: "█"}]}
```

Although this allows you to use 24 bit color, the size of the overall json object can quickly exceed Minecraft's maximum packet size with even the smallest of images using this approach.

The size of the json object is much smaller when using the font approach, as each pixel does not need to be its own json object. The only additional data included is specifying the custom font with the unicode characters.

```
/summon minecraft:text_display ~ ~2 ~ {text: {font: "lfx:pxl", text: "\u100e \u10ef \u1eff "}}
```

Using this approach, I was able to stream 4k video to players on a server without exceeding the maximum packet size. The main drawback of this approach is client performance. Even though you can stream 4k video to players, it will lag their games to 1-3fps. For lower resolution video, it is feasible to stream to many players on a server.

## Case Study
This technology was used in my custom DMX controlled lighting plugin, MCLiveFX, for [Bundle Group's](https://bundlegroup.gg/) Coasters and Crafters Live night club events [(Twitch VOD)](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2555123854?t=00h07m58s). The font was used for the pixel mapped RGB matrices above the crowd.

(EPILEPSY WARNING)

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/997e499b-1da5-4f5b-b3fd-9ba97b4841c9

If you wish to work with us to bring your ideas to life, feel free to contact us via the [Bundle Group website!](https://bundlegroup.gg/)
